docs/cli/speed.rst, before:

.. speed:

speed
-----

``speed`` (or ``sp``) computes the time derivative of the radiometry of a series of raster products of the same type.

.. code-block:: console

  $ rastertools speed --help

  usage: rastertools speed [-h] [-b BANDS [BANDS ...]] [-a] [-o OUTPUT]
                           inputs [inputs ...]
  
  Compute the speed of radiometric values of several raster images
  
  positional arguments:
    inputs                Input file to process (e.g. Sentinel2 L2A MAJA from
                          THEIA). You can provide a single file with extension
                          ".lst" (e.g. "speed.lst") that lists the input files
                          to process (one input file per line in .lst)
  
  optional arguments:
    -h, --help            show this help message and exit
    -b BANDS [BANDS ...], --bands BANDS [BANDS ...]
                          List of bands to compute
    -a, --all             Compute all bands
    -o OUTPUT, --output OUTPUT
                          Output dir where to store results (by default current
                          dir)
  
  By default only first band is computed.

.. warning::
  At least two input rasters must be given. The rasters must match one of the configured raster types,
  either a built-in raster type or a custom raster type defined with option -t of ``rastertools``.
  See section "Raster types".

Example:

.. code-block:: console

  $ rastertools speed ./SENTINEL2A_20180521-105702-711_L2A_T30TYP_D-ndvi.zip ./SENTINEL2B_20181023-105107-455_L2A_T30TYP_D-ndvi.tif

This command generates an image with one band that represents :math:`\\frac{ndvi_2 - ndvi_1}{date_2 - data_1}` where:

- index 1 corresponds to the first image in the command line: date_1=2018/05/21 10:57:02
- index 2 corresponds to the second image in the command line: date_2=2018/10/23 10:51:07

Here is a capture of the output image:

.. image:: ../_static/speed_ndvi.jpg

Notice the presence of a nodata zone that comes from the SENTINEL2B product which has a cloud mask.

Commit message:

Rasterio plugin and Pip install rasterio (#20)
* docs: start review documentation

* refactor: replacing argparse by click in main.py

* refactor: WIP click

* refactor: replaced argparse by click

* refactor: working tests in all directories

* docs: Docstrings of the click cli functions

docs: Updating html doc with cli --help output

* refactor: began setup.py

refactor: cleaned code

* install: update setup.py

* feat: add vsimem_to_rasterio function

* refactor: cleaning

* refactor: suppress vsimem_to_rasterio

* refactor: fixing --compare test

* refactor: cleaned code

* refactor: setup w/ rasterio

* refactor: test --compare modifications

* CI: add CI/CD workflows

* CD: from test.pypi to pypi

* docs : added georastertools tuto

* docs : improving georastertools tuto

* docs : improving georastertools tuto

* docs : changing tuto_data

* fix : restored "with" data opening

* feat : removed additionnal stats computation

* feat : modified ci.yml to test with CI

* feat : centralized sys.exit()

* feat : launch CI when PR into main

* feat : restored tiling valueError

* feat : tests modifs for CI

* feat : WIP test tiling

* feat : corrected DHM by DEM

* feat : removed duplicated numpy import

* docs: updated install doc

* feat : small docs corrections

---------

Co-authored-by: Arthur VINCENT <arthur.vincent@csgroup.eu>

docs/cli/speed.rst, after:

.. speed:

speed
-----

``speed`` (or ``sp``) computes the time derivative of the radiometry of a series of raster products of the same type.

.. code-block:: console

  $ georastertools speed --help
  usage: georastertools speed [-h] [-b BANDS [BANDS ...]] [-a] [-o OUTPUT]
                           inputs [inputs ...]

  Compute the speed of radiometric values for multiple raster images.

  This command calculates the speed of radiometric values for raster data,
  optionally processing specific bands or all bands from the input images. The
  results are saved to a specified output directory.

  Arguments:

      inputs TEXT

      Input file to process (e.g. Sentinel2 L2A MAJA from THEIA). You can
      provide a single file with extension ".lst" (e.g. "speed.lst") that
      lists the input files to process (one input file per line in .lst).

  Options:
      -b, --bands INTEGER  List of bands to process
      -a, --all            Process all bands
      -o, --output TEXT    Output directory to store results (by default current
                           directory)
      -h, --help           Show this message and exit.


.. warning::
  At least two input rasters must be given. The rasters must match one of the configured raster types,
  either a built-in raster type or a custom raster type defined with option -t of ``georastertools``.
  See section "Raster types".

Example:

.. code-block:: console

  $ georastertools speed ./SENTINEL2A_20180521-105702-711_L2A_T30TYP_D-ndvi.zip ./SENTINEL2B_20181023-105107-455_L2A_T30TYP_D-ndvi.tif

This command generates an image with one band that represents :math:`\\frac{ndvi_2 - ndvi_1}{date_2 - data_1}` where:

- index 1 corresponds to the first image in the command line: date_1=2018/05/21 10:57:02
- index 2 corresponds to the second image in the command line: date_2=2018/10/23 10:51:07

Here is a capture of the output image:

.. image:: ../_static/speed_ndvi.jpg

Notice the presence of a nodata zone that comes from the SENTINEL2B product which has a cloud mask.
