docs/install.rst, before:

Conda
-----

First, create a conda environment via:

.. code-block:: console

  $ conda env create -f environment.yml
  $ conda env update -f env_update.yml

The following libraries will be installed in the conda environment named ``rastertools`` :

- pyscaffold
- geopandas
- scipy
- gdal
- rasterio
- matplotlib
- tqdm

Secondly, run commands:

.. code-block:: console

  $ conda activate rastertools
  $ pip install -e .

``rastertools`` will be installed in the conda environment. Then, the CLI ``rastertools`` can be used and the API :obj:`eolab.rastertools`
can be called in a python script.

Docker et Singularity
---------------------

``rastertools`` can be used in a Docker container that is built from the Dockerfile available in the root directory of the project.
To create the docker image, run:

.. code-block:: console

  $ docker build -t rastertools:latest .

To create the singularity image from the docker image, run:

.. code-block:: console

  $ singularity build rastertools_latest.sif docker://rastertools:latest

Commit message:

Rasterio plugin and Pip install rasterio (#20)
* docs: start review documentation

* refactor: replacing argparse by click in main.py

* refactor: WIP click

* refactor: replaced argparse by click

* refactor: working tests in all directories

* docs: Docstrings of the click cli functions

docs: Updating html doc with cli --help output

* refactor: began setup.py

refactor: cleaned code

* install: update setup.py

* feat: add vsimem_to_rasterio function

* refactor: cleaning

* refactor: suppress vsimem_to_rasterio

* refactor: fixing --compare test

* refactor: cleaned code

* refactor: setup w/ rasterio

* refactor: test --compare modifications

* CI: add CI/CD workflows

* CD: from test.pypi to pypi

* docs : added georastertools tuto

* docs : improving georastertools tuto

* docs : improving georastertools tuto

* docs : changing tuto_data

* fix : restored "with" data opening

* feat : removed additionnal stats computation

* feat : modified ci.yml to test with CI

* feat : centralized sys.exit()

* feat : launch CI when PR into main

* feat : restored tiling valueError

* feat : tests modifs for CI

* feat : WIP test tiling

* feat : corrected DHM by DEM

* feat : removed duplicated numpy import

* docs: updated install doc

* feat : small docs corrections

---------

Co-authored-by: Arthur VINCENT <arthur.vincent@csgroup.eu>

docs/install.rst, after:

Conda
-----

First, create a conda environment via:

.. code-block:: console

  $ conda create -n georastertools
  $ conda activate georastertools

The following libraries will be installed in the conda environment named ``georastertools`` :

- pyscaffold
- geopandas
- scipy
- gdal
- rasterio
- matplotlib
- tqdm

Secondly, run commands:

.. code-block:: console

  $ conda install python=3.8.13 libgdal=3.5.2
  $ pip install georastertools --no-binary rasterio

``georastertools`` will be installed in the conda environment. Then, the CLI ``georastertools`` can be used and the API :obj:`eolab.georastertools`
can be called in a python script.

Docker et Singularity
---------------------

``georastertools`` can be used in a Docker container that is built from the Dockerfile available in the root directory of the project.
To create the docker image, run:

.. code-block:: console

  $ docker build -t georastertools:latest .

To create the singularity image from the docker image, run:

.. code-block:: console

  $ singularity build rastertools_latest.sif docker://georastertools:latest
